a machine gun battle in a suburban
street a man bashed to death at a
domestic airport people shot dead in
restaurants it sounds like a war zone
in fact it's Australia today in the grip
of a bikie war 3 news australia
correspondent amanda gillies reports on
what the country is doing to shut it
down no Australian State is immune from
biker gangs there are 60 of them across
the country a hundred and ninety-six
club houses or chapters with more than
three and a half thousand members and
organized nationwide crime army just
waiting to strike again this is a
national problem this is not just
contain these are not just meatheads on
motorbikes this is a form of terrorism
Mike Rann is the South Australian
premier his state has introduced tough
anti Viking laws which basically
dismantle criminal biker gangs and he
wants it put on the national agenda
we've got legislation across Australia
that deals with the threat of terrorism
but these are terrorists within our
community who think they can do what
they like and that's why we're standing
up to them there's never a silver bullet
there's never an instant fix but if you
don't try you don't win both sides of
the political divide and other states
including here in New South Wales
Queensland and Western Australia have
now expressed interest in the tough
legislation even the New Zealand
government and opposition have recently
spoken to the premier about it good
opponents say it's having the reverse
effect in South Australia serving only
to unite rival clubs we're not going to
stop associating with their friends and
family it's just not going to happen
they can invent as many laws as they
want to lock us all up repeatedly the
debate has been response by the
escalating high-profile baekje Wars and
New South Wales this month the gangs
used to fight behind closed Clubhouse
doors now they've been fought in
suburban streets and public buildings
it's as if they don't care they think
they're untouchable by keys are feared
generally in the community and and they
use that to good advantage
a former New Zealand riot squad officer
who dealt with Kiwi bikie gangs believes
it's time for old-school tough policing
here yeah look at his old school and and
it's it's a negative style of policing
but then each area of policing has to be
applied to a certain area within society
in the meantime the state waits
nervously for the next strike
Amanda gillies Sydney 3 News